[applause]
>> Thank you very much.
You've all heard the story about the
breach of the Mexican government.
Human hackers used Open AI and Anthropic
as assistants in order to achieve a
massive data breach.
What I want to talk to you about today
is autonomous hacking where the AI does
all the work without any human
assistance.
The situation in cybersecurity today is
akin to the Battle of Nagashino in 1575
in Japan.
In this picture on the left-hand side is
the army of Oda Nobunaga.
Nobunaga was an upstart. He was a minor
warlord, but he treated warfare as a
system to be optimized.
And in particular, he used the very
latest weapons, the very latest guns.
On the right-hand side is the Takeda
clan.
The Takeda clan was
extremely famous and their cavalry was
thought to be invincible.
They had many well-known warriors who
had earned their their their skills in
in battles before.
But guess who won.
The situation in cybersecurity is going
to be exactly the same. Those with AI
will win.
Just to set the scene, let me tell you
about one particular vulnerability. A
couple of weeks ago, Microsoft announced
a remote code execution vulnerability in
Bing image search. Bing image search,
one of the best secured systems in the
world, very well secured by the
engineers at Microsoft, but also
hammered by thousands of hackers from
all over the world trying to get in.
A remote code execution vulnerability,
the very worst kind of vulnerability
where you can run arbitrary code on the
target system, complete takeover.
This vulnerability was found by the
product of my company, Xbo.
And the only input it needed
was the URL.
Nothing else.
And the cost?
$3,000
at list price. That's not what it cost
us.
So, it's fast, it's cheap, and extremely
effective.
The way Xbo works is very much like a
human hacker. It starts by
reconnaissance. It sends out a bunch of
scouts, agents that discover the attack
surface.
It prioritizes what endpoints look most
juicy, most promising for an attack, and
then it goes in and tries every relevant
attack type.
Despite evidence like this,
many human security researchers believe
that it's impossible to completely
autonomously carry out this task
with a machine.
So, in order to counter the skepticism,
already last year my company entered our
bot, Xbo, onto the HackerOne platform.
HackerOne is this platform that connects
companies that want their systems to be
tested with ethical hackers who will
then go and attack those systems and
report what vulnerabilities they find.
If they report good vulnerabilities,
they get paid a bounty and they get
points.
Within a few weeks,
Xbo first became the number one hacker
in the United States, and then in
August, it became the number one hacker
in the world.
And I have to stress this is completely
black box testing. It's just like the
Bing example I mentioned before. You
only give it the URL, nothing else. The
AI does the work completely
autonomously.
And that was back in August.
The the foundation models that we are
building on have enormously progressed
since then. This is on a set of open
source real web applications. These are
not some Mickey Mouse cyber benchmarks.
And uh
we started back in March last year.
We started 37 and then it reached the
top of the HackerOne leaderboard with an
alloy of Sonnet 40 and Gemini 25. I I
can't
I can't resist briefly telling you about
alloys.
So, think of these attacks as a sequence
of actions and at every step, you flip a
coin to decide what model to ask. Either
ask Gemini or ask Sonnet. This is much
better than either model separately.
It's a bit like like pair programming.
The two models
uh compensate for each other's mistakes.
So, then shortly after Xbo topped the
the HackerOne leaderboard, GPT-5 came
out.
Just extrapolating from its performance,
it would have done at least three times
better. So, in August,
Xbo was a little bit better than the
best the best human on HackerOne.
With GPT-5, it would have been three
times better.
And since then, the
the models have only gotten better and
as you can see, we better collect a new
set of benchmarks because it's pretty
much saturated.
So, how should you think about this in
in relation to MyChelle's?
MyChelle's has been
as has mostly been been reported as a
tool that reads the source code
extremely well and points out potential
flaws in the code.
This is white box testing. It's not all
like what I was talking about about
before, purely black box testing. You
actually have access to the source code,
which of course is an advantage you do.
But as an attacker, you don't
necessarily.
The question with these with this code
analysis stuff is are the weaknesses
actually exploitable in the wild? And if
they are exploitable, does it matter?
What's the impact? Where can I go if I
get into if I can execute remote I I can
do remote code execution on a Bing
server,
where else can I get to? I I can't tell
you.
And then
of course there's many other
vulnerabilities that are configuration
or deployment problems. You can't
actually use them from the source code
itself. So, these are the questions that
Xbo answers for you.
If you get to know about a exploits,
it's probably already too late. So, you
typically like before the Bing example,
people publish a CVE to let the world
know that there was a vulnerability.
Back in 2018,
it the delay between publication of a
CVE and bad actors exploiting it in the
wild was almost two two and a half
years.
Today, the number has gone negative. For
most CVEs,
it is already being exploited before the
the
CVE is even published.
So, in view of all this evidence, it's
incomprehensible to me that whenever
there's news about AI and security,
cyber traditional cybersecurity stocks
drop. This makes no sense at all. We
need every possible defense that we can
get against these autonomous AI-powered
attacks.
So, so far I've been
preaching like Nostradamus, telling you
about all the bad things that might
happen. So,
let's try and rally the spirit of
Nobunaga, that Japanese warrior I talked
about at the beginning, and see what can
be done.
So, first of all,
all of you, everyone who's working on
frontier models, you must maximize the
cyber capabilities. No more talk about
whether it's safe to do that or not.
We're in an arms race, so we have to
make sure that we have the very best
models to power this type of work.
Secondly,
we need to enable human security
researchers to use this as an extension
of their own work in order to
to maximize the chances that we find all
the vulnerabilities before the bad guys
do.
And finally, you need to prioritize what
matters. You need to know whether the
bugs are truly exploitable and what
their impact is going to be, and Xbo can
help with that.
We've got about 6 to 9 months
to do this.
Just extrapolating from the from the
from the progress we software
engineering agents,
in 6 to 9 months we have we will have
open weight models that are just as good
as MyChelle's and similar models.
And so, if you want to have
a nice Thanksgiving dinner with your
family,
you better start fixing now.
Thank you.
>> [applause]